13X004: Imagerie Numérique
Autumn semester 2020-2021
Exams’ questions

Q1. HVS: explain the image formation in the eye. What are the differences in focusing between
the ordinary cameras and the human eyes?
Q2. HVS. Explain the fundamentals of color vision. Explain the additive and subtractive color
mixings.
Q3. HVS. Explain the CMYK model. Exemplify the reflection of colors. Explain the principles of
halftoning. Why “K” is used in CMYK model in practice, while it is enough to have CMY to
simulate any color?
Q4. HVS. Explain the chromaticity color diagram. What is the achievable color gamut? Which
factors determine the achievable color gamut for the screens and printers?
Q5. Image acquisition. Explain the role of a sensor in imaging. Explain the principle of photon
counting? Which size of sensors is of preference in practice? Explain the trade-offs.
Q6. Image acquisition. Explain the design of modern sensors.
Q7. Image acquisition. Explain the different types of noise in digital images. How can one
reduce the noise in digital images?
Q8. Image acquisition. Explain the principles of modern color imaging. What is a color filter
array? What is the demosaicing?
Q9. Histogram transformation. Explain and exemplify the example of contrast stretching and
gamma correction. Where do we use these operations in practice?
Q10. Histogram transformation. Explain and exemplify the example of histogram matching.
Q11. Geometrical transformations. Explain what is the affine matrix. Explain the shift, scaling,
flipping and change of aspect ratio.
Q12. Geometrical transformations. Explain the affine family of transformations. Explain the
rotation and shearing.
Q13. Geometrical transformations. Explain the projective transformations.

Q14. Spatial filters: Explain the difference between the convolution and correlation. Give
examples.
Q15. Spatial filters: Explain the border effects during the computation of 2D convolution. Define
the total size of filtered images. Give examples.
Q16. Spatial filters: Explain the properties of convolution.
Q17. Spatial filters: Explain the advantages of separable filters for the computation of 2D
convolution.
Q18. Spatial filters: Explain the low-pass filtering. Examplify the box and Gaussian filters.
Q19. Spatial filters: Explain the high-pass filtering. Examplify the Laplacian filter.
Q20. Spatial filters: Explain the high-pass filtering. Examplify the gradients.
Q21. Spatial filters: Explain the unsharpened mask and its link to the Laplacian sharpening.

